[classical music playing]
[narrator]
…and the once uninhabited island.
42 nautical miles from the coast
of colonial New England.
came to be known as Widow's Bay.
Now home to over 3.000 residents.
a town comprised
of fishermen. families. and friends.
all thanks to one man.
Thank you for joining us
for Richard Warren's journey
from humble tradesmen
to the first Reeve Prime
and Lord Island Protector.
an office the town
now colloquially refers to as "Mayor."
And here's Richard the widower with his…
his adoring second wife. Sarah Warren.
She's seen here
preparing the evening meal.
We also have her journal.
So. where are you all from? Hmm?
Uh. we've never had so many visitors.
[cheerful music playing]
[chattering indistinctly]
[music ends]
["Give Me The Night" playing on radio]
♪ …and we'll lead the others
On a ride through paradise ♪
♪ And if you feel all right ♪
Then we can be… ♪
[song continues faintly]
There. uh. there's no cell reception
on the island.
Thanks.
[Tom] Can I help?
No. I have a map. Thanks.
Yeah. I made it.
Warning. it's not to scale.
I'm sorry. I'm the mayor.
Um. My-My-My photo's on page four.
Huh.
Well. that's fun.
Um. well then you should probably know
the map isn't the problem.
it's your street signs.
Unless this actually is "Dickhole Street"?
It's-It's not. Um…
Where are you headed?
Can I offer you a ride?
Uh…
All right. Just…
- don't murder me.
- [chuckles]
[tourist] We got in last night.
but we just went to bed.
There was a time
we would have picked Vegas.
but these days a bachelorette in a place
like this is a little more our speed.
- You getting married?
- Me? No.
[chuckles] No. just a bridesmaid.
- Oh.
- We're staying at the Inn.
How-How was your stay?
It's nice. It's quaint.
- Great.
- Yeah.
Man. if I lived here.
I would go to the beach with a coffee
and a crossword every morning.
Oh. Then you should go
to the opening tomorrow.
I'm-I'm-I'm doing the inaugural swim.
Uh. It's-It's just one
of the island traditions.
The mayor swims in the ocean every year
to show that it's-it's safe from…
the island's history of ocean…
dangers.
- Interesting.
- Yeah.
We're also hosting
a-a-a Sunset Cocktails event after.
Um… I mean. if you and your friends
are looking for some nightlife.
Tonight the girls were talking
about going to Barnabus Tavern.
- It's supposed to be a dive bar.
- Yeah.
Do you… do you go there?
Yeah. sometimes.
Well. maybe I'll see you there then.
Yeah. Yeah. Maybe.
Well. some of the cash businesses downtown
are balking at the idea
of a city sales tax.
They said. um… actually they said.
"If you want this blood money.
you gotta come and get it yourself."
which felt threatening.
So… I don't know. I'm at a loss.
What do you think. Tom?
[smacks lips] Yeah. Yeah.
No. of course. Yeah. that's great.
Hey. um.
are we getting the word out
about the sunset cocktails?
I-I just… I just feel like
no one knows about it.
I have personally been spreading the word
and Rosemary's been passing out flyers
all morning.
Yeah. I think she's
just been smoking outside.
You really need to stay on top of this.
'cause I spoke to a woman.
hadn't heard about any of it.
- What woman?
- Just a woman.
- Where did you speak to her?
- [smacks lips] In my car.
I don't understand.
Well. she. uh… she was lost.
so I offered her a ride 'cause
it seemed like the right thing to do.
- Of course. Excuse me.
- That's fine.
Anyway. let's. uh. let's just make sure
every accommodation has all the info.
Restaurants too. And. um…
Oh. I also want to talk about music.
What music we're going to play
when I walk from the platform
to the ocean for the swim.
because I don't want that to be awkward.
- Was she attractive?
- I-I didn't notice one way or the other.
- How old was she?
- She was… She was age-appropriate.
What an odd way to describe someone
who you're just giving a ride.
Well. Patricia. as mayor.
um. the safety of the residents of…
and visitors to…
our seaside village is my top priority.
So if a woman is stranded and
needs my help. yes. I'm going to offer it.
[clicks tongue] Okay.
so what is the age cutoff?
Because you once saw me with a flat tire.
- and you kept on driving.
- No. I didn't see you.
Ruth doesn't even have a car.
She walks to work.
Well. I thought she enjoyed the exercise.
Uh… Hey. Ruth. um.
may I offer you a ride tonight?
- Oh. no. Thank you.
- Yeah.
[Ruth] It's the mornings that are hard.
[Tom sniffles]
[clicks pen]
[sighs]
[keys jingle]
[commentator on TV]
Bases loaded for Detroit. Nobody out.
While Boston's just trying
to minimize the damage.
- Detroit scored two in the first…
- [smacks lips]
…and now Boston's in another jam here.
Top of the Detroit order
coming up in the fourth.
They needed at least six innings…
- [sighs]
- [commentator continues faintly]
Hello.
Hey.
- Um. am I catching you at a bad time?
- No.
Where you going?
Meeting colleagues. At the Barnabus.
- Colleagues? Colleagues?
- Yeah.
Okay. Well. I'll…
I'm going to be home. [sniffles]
- Right. 'cause you're grounded.
- Yeah. of course.
- [crowd cheering on TV]
- [commentator exclaiming indistinctly]
Did you change Dickens Street
to Dickhole Street?
Somebody did that?
That's horrible.
Have a good time with your colleagues.
[country music playing on sound system]
[sighs]
["The River" playing on radio]
♪ Somehow it seems ♪
♪ It was all another dream ♪
♪ Soon… ♪
[song continues faintly]
Excuse me. ma'am?
Miss?
Do you… Do you need a ride?
[breathes shakily]
- [groans]
- Hello?
[groaning]
[Tom] Fuck. fuck.
[chilling music playing]
[breathes heavily]
Fuck. [breathes heavily]
[chilling music continues]
[gasps]
[screams]
[breathing heavily]
[music fades]
- [Tom] Did you write that down?
- Mm-hmm.
Look. she's probably a homeless woman
who got a free ride on the ferry.
but you should call the mental hospitals
on the mainland. you know. just in case.
And-And set up
a perimeter around the island.
Island has a perimeter.
It's called the ocean.
[clicks tongue] Oh. okay. I don't know
where your patience is this morning.
but did you write down she was fast?
[stammers] Yes.
[doctor clears throat]
- I… Listen. I have…
- [dial tone]
- [Tom breathes deeply]
- [clears throat]
You sure this wasn't
an animal that did this to you?
No. W-Why?
Does it look like an animal wound?
Not to me.
Then why would you… Oh. my… I can
still swim in the ocean with this. right?
Of course you can't.
Isn't salt water good for wounds?
Remind me. where did you get your MD?
I'm not doing this with you again.
I have the swim today.
I have to go in the ocean.
You did your residency with Dr. MacArthur.
- right?
- Stop! Stop it! Stop it.
I'm sorry. It's just everything's planned.
people will be waiting.
[phone ringing]
[Dale] I mean. who wouldn't show up
for Sunset Cocktails?
- It's free drinks and a sunset.
- [Patricia] Mm-mmm.
- [Dale] Oh. Tom.
- What?
What happened to your arm?
Oh. I-I got scratched by an elderly woman.
Was she in her 40s?
You know what?
I was trying to do something nice. I…
I saw a woman walking alone late at night…
And I offered her a ride.
she scratched me.
now it won't stop bleeding.
Tom. you just missed a visitor. Mersa.
Uh. Oh… [stammers] …Marissa?
She-She was here? What did she say?
Uh. she asked if you were here. I said no.
[stammers] Oh. Did she leave a number?
No. Uh. but. uh… Oh. but she said…
- Ruth.
- She said…
- Oh. She said…
- Yeah.
…uh. "Maybe she'd see you at. uh…
swim…"
There's one more word. just a minute.
Oh. Today.
Thanks.
"I officially open the ocean."
[Rosemary] Sounds like the Sea Hag.
[Tom] The what?
Your scratch.
Old fishermen's lore. you heard of it?
No. because I can't keep track of
the amount of bullshit this island spews.
- [chair creaks]
- No. please don't settle in.
Rosemary. whatever weird tale you're about
to tell me. I don't wanna know.
Story goes…
[sighs]
…the Hag targets lonely sailors
and follows them home at night.
She scratches you and she gets some
of your skin under her fingernails
so she can track you down
like a bloodhound.
She's a trickster.
Waits until she's got you alone.
got you weak.
[coughing]
[wheezes. continues coughing]
[whimpers. gulps]
No. you can't have my water.
[stammers] I don't need to hear
the rest of this. I don't have the time.
[Rosemary inhales deeply]
[sighs]
Can't do anything right today.
[cheerful music playing]
What's wrong?
[Dale] Apparently. there's no way
to get electricity to the beach.
Why am I just hearing about this now?
Wha… You know. this-this was Patrici…
Where-Where is she?
Well. I think she's pretty caught up
in her cocktail hour.
but I radioed Garrett
to have him hook us up
to the marina electrical via converter.
and he's on the way.
How fucking long is that gonna take?
[sighs]
No rush. Garrett. Take your time.
He's-He's-He's riding a bicycle?
Jesus Christ.
Oh. he stopped.
Oh. no. no. no. Don't-Don't-Don't…
Oh… Oh. no.
Oh. for fuck's sake.
Don't bring the bike back!
[sighs]
[whimsical music playing]
Okay.
- It's working? Oh.
- Yeah.
Thank you. Thank you. Thanks…
[clears throat]
Hello. everyone.
Hello.
- It's not working.
- [mutters]
Um…
It is my… It is my honor…
It's not working.
- I can hear it.
- [clears throat]
[shouts] Hello. everyone!
Um. as mayor. it is my honor
to-to keep this tradition alive.
Um. I would like to welcome
all our new friends joining us this year.
So here's to a-a-a safe
and spectacular summer.
I officially. uh. open the ocean!
["I'm So Excited" playing on speakers]
♪ Tonight's the night
We're gonna make it happen ♪
Here we go.
♪ Tonight we'll put
All other things aside ♪
♪ Give in this time and show me… ♪
[Tom chuckles]
♪ We're goin' for those pleasures
In the night ♪
[song continues faintly]
[dramatic music playing]
[coughs]
[breathes heavily]
- [music fades]
- [audience applauding]
[panting]
[ominous music playing]
[grunts]
[yelling]
[music fades]
Oh. God! [yelping]
[Bechir] Hey. Come on.
Hey. It's all right. buddy.
[sighs]
[grunts]
Oh. Zenith. Cool.
Are you gonna tell me
what the fuck you're doing in my house?
[stammers] I just thought I'd check in.
Check in. Wellness check?
Okay.
Why don't you just tell me what finally
made you able to ring my doorbell?
[sighs]
[inhales deeply]
Have you ever heard of a hag?
Specifically one that scratches you
and then tracks you down?
[chuckles]
Every sailor knows the story of the hag.
♪ Oh ♪
[Tom] Oh.
♪ Lads say farewell to Ensign Trag ♪
♪ He went to shore and met the Hag ♪
♪ With just one gash betrothed they be ♪
♪ She followed him on land and sea ♪
♪ For if you let her pierce your skin ♪
♪ Betwixt her thighs. your final sin ♪
I don't-I don't understand.
How do you die?
She crawls into your bed
and sits on your face.
I can't believe I let you
into my head again.
- Goddamn it.
- Wait. Tom. Tom!
[exhales heavily]
When did she get you?
Doesn't matter.
Find a chest.
lock yourself in it from the inside.
- A chest?
- Yeah. Her scratch paralyzes you.
You'll get tired.
By tonight.
you won't be able to lift a finger.
Now. you stay in there for 72 hours.
Till the wound heals.
then she can't track you no more.
Otherwise. she'll hunt you down.
[stammers. sighs]
[winces]
Ah.
[muffled chatter]
[exhales heavily]
[chattering]
- Hello. Gil. PJ.
- [Evan inhales sharply]
- What's up.
- Hey.
Hey. they're going to Shawn's house
to stay over.
You're grounded. You're not
even supposed to have friends here.
Oh. yeah.
Yeah.
By the way. some lady named Marissa called
and said that she's going
to the Driftwood now if you're free.
Whoa. Who's the lucky lady. Mr. Loftis?
She's a friend. PJ.
[inhales sharply] Um. hey.
I could-I could…
I could go to Shawn's house to just…
[stammers] …play a game
with some friends or something.
if you're out of the house.
And-And you won't be going out
until all hours?
This-This is a sleepover. um… pa-party?
Yes. it's a. uh. sleepover party. Yes.
Okay.
Okay. but-but please don't do that thing
where you tell me
you're staying at Shawn's
and then tell Shawn's parents you're
staying here. Just stay at Shawn's.
all right? I'm trusting you.
Yes. of course.
We're honest with each other.
Right?
[sighs]
[PJ] Dude. your dad's gonna get
his dick wet.
- [Evan] Wha-What? [speaks indistinctly]
- [PJ laughing]
[sighs]
["More Than This" playing on sound system]
[Tom] I'm so sorry… [chuckles]
…that our food is taking so long.
Oh. my God. You hate this woman.
- No. no. I don't. I swear. I don't.
- [chuckles]
But if I'd known Kathy
was working the Driftwood tonight.
I would have just canceled.
Really?
- Not even a relocation.
- No. call it right off.
- [chuckles]
- I'm… I'm not a monster.
- Uh! No. I'm not… [stammers]
- Mm-hmm.
…but I've been watching her
read her paperback all night.
Well. she deserves it.
- Oh.
- [cutlery clatters]
Thank you. Kathy.
She's my best friend.
- You absolutely did not order that.
- [chuckles]
Yeah. I ordered a sundae.
- I know you did.
- [chuckles]
Wow.
[person panting]
[grunts]
[panting]
[exclaims. grunts]
[grunts. pants]
[ominous music playing]
[panting]
[music stops]
[both chuckle]
So. do you go out on a lot of dates?
As. you know.
- the mayor.
- [clicks tongue]
- Well. not since Kathy and I split.
- Mmm.
- It's not a large dating pool.
- [chuckles]
[sighs] But you were married. right?
- Yes.
- [chuckles]
How long ago did you separate?
[clicks tongue]
Uh. we… we didn't separate.
Um. she passed away.
Oh. I'm so sorry.
Long time ago. [clicks tongue]
Complications from childbirth.
- Hey. squad.
- Oh. [stammers]
- How do you feel about dessert?
- Could you just give us a-a minute?
Oh. sure.
- I'm sorry.
- Oh. no. it's fine. It's fine.
I mean. it's just been the two
of us for the most part.
and we've gotten by fine.
I can't imagine what that must have
been like. all on your own.
To just lose someone like that.
That's awful.
[clicks tongue] Oh. my God.
- What?
- I have sunset cocktails.
Oh. do you have to go?
Uh. well. I think my colleague. Patricia.
would bring a gun to work if I didn't.
- Oh.
- I'm sorry.
It's okay.
Did you wanna come?
Is there somewhere else we could go?
It's just this is nice.
I'd love to keep talking.
Maybe we could go to your house?
Oh.
I'm sorry. is that weird? I'm sorry.
- Um--
- I'm sorry.
I swear. I don't usually invite myself
over to a man's house.
No. no. of course. Uh. it's just. um…
Tonight's not the best.
Yeah. No. I get it.
[teen chuckles]
[music playing on radio]
[chattering indistinctly]
Wait a second.
You've never been to Boston?
- That's insane.
- No. no. no.
I mean. I have. but yeah.
these guys have never left the island.
- What? You've never even left the island?
- [teen 2 coughs]
No way.
You guys do this shit in Boston?
[all exclaim. laughing]
- Yes. we do that in Boston.
- [twig snaps]
[inhales sharply]
[Evan] Reverend Bryce?
There is evil here.
- [Patricia] Well. Tom.
- [Tom sighs]
I don't know where you are.
but I am at the event…
that you said you would be at!
[answer machine beeps]
[Wyck panting] Loftis. pick up.
If she's not inside yet.
she's gonna find a way.
[breathes heavily]
You won't be able to fight her off…
[sighs]
[knock on door]
[door knob rattling]
Hello?
[Marissa] Hi. it's me.
We took a shot and they dropped me off.
H-How did you know where I live?
[disembodied vocalizing]
[Marissa] Someone
from your office told me.
I-I haven't seen any of your friends and…
and n-no one in town has mentioned
anything about a bachelorette party.
[sighs]
[Marissa] Oh.
I mean. you can meet them tomorrow
if you want.
- [vocalizing continues]
- [taps on door]
[chuckles] Aren't you going to let me in?
Why are you asking like that?
Like what?
Okay. I think I am getting
mixed signals here.
Can we just talk?
No.
No. I-I-I know what you are.
[breathing shakily]
[vocalizing stops]
- [Marissa] Well. that was humiliating.
- [friend] Why? What happened?
[sighs]
[panting]
[objects clattering]
Ow. shit.
[panting]
[sighs]
[exhales deeply]
Why are you so groggy?
I don't know.
I thought you went to work.
Not yet.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
[chilling music playing]
[breathes shakily]
[breathes shakily] Oh.
[Hag snickering]
[Tom whimpering]
[Hag cackling]
[Tom grunts]
[grunts]
- [chilling music continues]
- [groaning]
Come on. Come on. Come on.
[straining]
[grunts]
[whimpers. grunting]
[panting]
[gulps]
[thudding]
[door creaking]
[whimpering]
[Hag humming]
[Hag grunts]
[coughs]
[Wyck] Hey.
[groans]
- [gasps]
- [splashes]
[liquid draining]
[coughs. breathes shakily]
[sighs]
[Tom coughs]
[panting]
Why is this happening? [pants]
- [phone ringing]
- I don't know.
You just survive.
- [sniffs]
- [Tom sighs]
[breathes shakily]
[ringing continues]
[Wyck] Come on.
[answer machine beeps]
Tom. It's Bryce.
[breathing shakily] I heard it.
I'm so sorry. God forgive me.
[bell tolling]
[Bechir. on radio] Rescue station one.
This is Sheriff Clemmons.
All available fire and rescue.
Patricia's cocktails.
I don't know what the fuck is going on!